Welcome and thank you for
coming to the Graphics,
Media, and Games Kickoff.
iOS and Mac OS give you
a wealth of graphics,
media, and game technologies for you
to use in your application.
And today what we're hoping to give
you a little bit of insight into are
some of the sessions and some insight
into the technologies that we're going
to be presenting this week at WWDC.
So right now,
we're going to focus in a little
bit on OpenGL and OpenGL ES,
our industry standard 3D graphics
API for accessing the power of the GPU.
We're going to talk about OpenAL,
the industry standard for building
realistic 3D spatial audio environments.
Then we're going to
talk about Game Center.
Game Center is Apple's
social gaming network.
and AV Foundation,
the framework you should
use for all of your...
All of your media editing
needs of your application.
And then Core Image,
our powerful image processing library.
And then we're going to touch on AirPlay.
I think about giving you a unique
opportunity for you to stream audio
and video from your application.
So let's get started.
OpenGL is an industry standard
available on Mac OS X.
and iOS, we give you OpenGL ES,
both powerful APIs for accessing
the GPU for leveraging the 3D
capabilities of the processor.
Graphics processors today are
fundamentally built around shaders,
the ability to write shaders and to
run them on the graphics processor.
Shaders take geometry
and textures as inputs.
They use those inputs to compute
the visual effect that you're after.
This is what is at the heart of
the amazing visual effects you
see in the applications today.
And to get this session started,
I'm going to bring Geoff Staahl up,
and he's going to show us what's
possible on the iPad using shaders.
Thank you, John.
What you're seeing is the latest game,
Shadowgun, from Madfinger Games,
built on top of Unity Technologies,
running on iOS, iPad 2,
60 frames per second.
This is a beautiful game.
[Transcript missing]
We have a great reflectivity mask
to give these specular highlights,
all computed on the GPU.
In fact, every single pixel you see
is computed on the GPU.
All of this real time,
60 frames per second.
We have a cloth simulation.
The flag itself is a cloth
simulation that's running on a
vertex shader along with the wires,
are animated with vertex shaders.
Over here,
you have this great HDR effect.
That HDR effect and those god
rays are all optimized shaders.
Fantastic visuals.
Remember, this is on an iPad 2,
on the GPU.
This is not just a technology demo.
This is a full game level.
This has your enemies, it has AI,
pathfinding.
All those things are integrated here.
It's not just the graphics technologies.
Now let's take a look at another
part of the demonstration.
If we look at the character himself,
look at a very, very realistic character.
In fact, the character is run on
shaders that are BRDFs.
They're Binary Reflectance
Direction Function.
Basically what they do is they
define the way a material looks.
For example,
if you look at the top of the shoulder,
you see there's a cloth.
That cloth has a different look
than the buckle or his skin.
These functions can be encoded.
You can run on the GPU to give you a
fantastic look for your application.
Now let's watch as we
go into this green area.
What you're seeing here,
you're seeing the character as it
picks up this fantastic green glow
in the simulation or in the game.
What that is,
is that's called a light probe.
And this is, we believe,
the first time that anyone's used
light probes in a mobile game.
Light probes are usually used,
reserved for things like cinema,
where Avatar used them to great effect,
or console type of games.
In this case, what light probes are,
you take spherical samples
around your game level.
In this case, there's about 300 light
probes on this game level.
Then in real time,
you actually take the coefficients
from those light probes,
you can linear interpolate
them on the GPU in a shader,
and get this lighting effect.
And now if we watch,
as he transitions out of the green,
into the dark, entering the elevator,
and back into this green area.
Amazing effect of really bringing
the character into this 3D world.
You can see some more HDR effects,
fantastic visuals, fully animated world.
Madfinger Games built with
Unity technologies running on iOS,
60 frames per second,
stencil shadow for the fans,
more god rays, true to force in graphics,
running on mobile graphics.
This really sets a new high
bar for mobile graphics today.
Thank you.
Thank you, Geoff.
So shaders are critically important
for you to be able to build these
amazing visual effects you see.
It's absolutely incredible
what's possible.
And with Lion and iOS 5,
shaders are everywhere they run.
So everywhere Lion and iOS 5 run,
you have access to the power of shaders.
So there's no reason for
you not to use them now.
So as I said, the graphics processor has
fundamentally evolved over
the years to be about shaders.
You write shaders and
you run them on the GPU.
And getting those shaders optimal
And getting the syntax of those
shaders correct can be challenging.
So in iOS 5, we've introduced a series of
tools to help you do that.
The first tool is the
OpenGL ES Performance Detective.
The OpenGL Performance Detective is an
expert application that automatically
analyzes your use of OpenGL,
both in terms of
performance and correctness,
and gives you suggestions about
how you can correct those problems,
how you can optimize your use of OpenGL.
The second tool is
OpenGL Analyzer Instrument.
It's an Xcode instrument that gives you
that next level of information about
the performance characteristics of
your application and its use of OpenGL,
giving you that fine detail
of information that you can
then act upon to improve the
performance of your application.
Third is OpenGL ES Debugger,
and we've seen the demonstration from
the Xcode team of OpenGL ES Debugger.
It's a full-featured tool,
giving you frame-by-frame
access to information.
You can step through your program code,
your OpenGL code,
accessing state information,
buffer information,
giving you all the detailed
information you'll need to debug the
hardest OpenGL problems you may have.
And all of these tools are
available right within Xcode,
making it so you can stay right
in Xcode and use the OpenGL tools
to debug and optimize your
OpenGL implementation within your
application development cycle.
So to go into a demonstration
of some of these tools,
I'm going to bring Geoff on stage
and we're going to look at these.
What we're going to do is we're going
to take an application that we designed
to be able to show the graphics power of
the iPad 2 and some interactive lighting.
So if we go to the iPad here,
We can see where we stand.
And this is not quite
what I was looking for.
It's a little dark, a little stuttery,
and the lights aren't really
interacting with the world.
Let's use our tools and
see if we can fix that.
So I'm going to switch over
to the Mac and to Xcode.
It's showing the standard
instrument state on the top,
but what we want to focus
on is the area below here,
which is really important.
This is our expert area.
And what you notice that there are
things that it's giving you that are,
we've analyzed your API use of OpenGL and
we'll tell you some of the things that
we think could be really important.
So you can look at these things
and you can find redundant calls.
And one of those things we talked
about here is shader compilation.
It's telling me that
I'm compiling shaders.
It turns out, if you see,
I have 105 frames and
105 shader compilations.
So I'm compiling my
shaders every single frame.
Probably not what you want to do,
so that's a really
interesting area to look at.
Since this is integrated with Xcode,
what we can do, we'll stop here.
We'll use this arrow key.
It brings us up the stack trace.
Go here, it shows us the area where the
instrument found that problem.
Click this icon right
in this area right here,
which is go back to Xcode,
and it'll open the file right in Xcode.
Turns out when we're
setting up this demo,
we add an extra code that
did a light reset every time,
which is not needed for the way we're
running the demo here in the house.
So I'll remove that,
and we'll try and run that again.
So I'll remove that.
We're going to do a build and run.
And we are going to be
launching this momentarily.
Okay, this is not looking very good.
We will try one more time
and then we'll be done.
Okay, now if we switch to the iPad.
Can we switch to the iPad, please?
You need to switch to the secondary iPad.
So what you'll see is in a second
when the secondary iPad comes up,
you'll see the simulation is
now running very smoothly,
but we still don't have
the right lighting.
So we fixed our performance problem.
What we could use is the
performance detective will
tell us basically where it is,
tell us the state problem,
the shader compilation.
We used the instrument
to drill down deeper.
You could see that there was a
redundant shader compilation here.
We remove that, and we get the smooth
running application.
We're going to switch back to Xcode,
stopping our simulation,
and we noticed there was a
lighting problem with it.
That's the other machine.
There you go.
Here we go.
Now we're on the right machine.
Okay.
What we've added,
as you saw in the last session,
is the ability to take a snapshot.
The interesting thing here, again,
is it's working on the iPad itself,
and we've taken the snapshot in OpenGL.
It's capturing the frame,
and we're going to show you how you
can use some of those markers that
were introduced in the last session,
and you can find kind of a
detailed lighting problem.
I'm not sure why it didn't take
so long to capture the frame,
but we're going to move on with the talk.
And if you come down to the lab when
we do the OpenGL tools and there's
OpenGL tools sessions later this week,
we'll show you more details on
how to use the OpenGL debugger.
Thank you.
Thank you, Geoff.
As you can see,
we have a powerful set of tools.
Oh, that must have been the other demo.
So, new in iOS 5,
we're also making it easier for you
to use OpenGL in your application.
We're offering a new
frame kit called GeoKit.
GeoKit gives you a set of services
making the use of OpenGL easier for you.
The first API is UIKit integration,
giving you some high-level
Objective-C APIs that get you started
with creating OpenGL views and an
OpenGL context in your application.
Second is a math library,
giving you over 175 math
routines commonly used in 3D
applications like linear algebra,
matrix operations, and such.
And these math routines
are optimized for iOS,
giving you some high-performance
math routines that you can use.
Next, easy texture loading routines.
One function called to be able to
load a texture from file or memory
directly into an OpenGL texture,
again, limiting the amount of
code you have to write.
and an effects library.
An effects library to help you
start using OpenGL Shaders.
Because again,
OpenGL Shaders is how you're
going to get access to the
real capabilities of the GPU.
We've also extended OpenGL ES for iOS 5,
giving you the ability to do
HDR renderings with float buffers,
improved access to
floating point textures,
A new technique now available to
be able to do soft edge shadows.
Occlusion queries for high performance
occlusion querying in detailed
and complex 3D scenes and more
flexibility around shader objects.
We've also improved Lion.
Lion,
we've introduced a concept of profiles.
What profiles allows you to do
is to focus your use of the API,
the OpenGL API,
on the modern subset of the API.
OpenGL has evolved over the years and
has taken on a number of API calls.
The Core Profile lets you focus
that to the segment that's modern
and efficient and shader-focused.
So I encourage you to learn about
Core Profiles when you're writing
OpenGL programs for Mac OS X.
Now, a companion of OpenGL is OpenCL.
OpenCL is our high-performance
data parallel computing API.
It's also a programming interface
built off of a C-like language,
giving you more flexibility
in how you can write programs
and execute them on the GPU.
It's good for operations like
physics operations and basic math
operations or complex math operations.
Combined with the tight integration
and high-performance sharing of
data between OpenGL and OpenCL,
you can pick and choose between
which API is right for the
mathematical or rendering
effect you're trying to achieve.
So that's OpenGL for
Mac OS X and OpenGL ES for iOS.
Next, I want to talk about OpenALE.
OpenALE is the industry standard
and John Schultz have been working
with OpenGL for over a decade.
They are working on a new open GL library
for building realistic 3D spatial
audio effects into your application.
It's modeled after OpenGL,
making it a perfect companion
for your OpenGL applications,
making it great for games.
So we encourage you to look at
OpenGL for your 3D spatial audio effects.
Let's talk a little bit more
about what is a spatial audio
Spatial audio is about having point
sounds in 3D space and a listener.
And the sound the listener will hear will
be based on the position and the distance
those sounds are to the listener.
So as the sound moves
around the listener,
the sounds will move from left
and right ear and such and
give a spatial audio effect.
So OpenAL gives you the
ability to simulate these
spatial audio environments.
And we've taken an open
AL and we've extended it.
We've extended it to include reverb.
Reverb is where these point source
sounds will reflect off of objects and
obstructions within the environment.
We've also extended it with obstructions.
Obstructions are objects or walls
and such that are between this
point source sound and the listener,
muffling the high-frequency sounds
but letting the reverb through.
And we've added Occlusion.
Occlusion is where the sound
sources in the listener are in
different spaces or a different room.
This will muffle the high-frequency
sounds and the reverb.
So combined with these three extensions,
we've enhanced the ability for
you to build even more realistic
3D spatial audio environments
for your games and applications.
OpenAL is built on top of Core Audio.
Core Audio is our professional-grade
audio processing framework.
Core Audio gives you access to
things like MIDI devices and a
full feature set for building
the most complex audio editing
applications and music applications.
So that's OpenAL, OpenAL,
the industry standard
for 3D spatial audio,
based after OpenGL,
and we really encourage you
to use OpenAL for your games.
[Transcript missing]
We introduced Game Center last year,
last September, and now we have over 50
million registered users,
making it an incredible success.
Game Center is basically three
components to Game Center.
There's the application,
which gets installed in iOS.
Game Center is where players
will go to build friend networks,
look at leaderboards.
It's also where they will
initiate multiplayer games.
There's Game Kit, the framework,
which is a set of APIs that you'll use
to incorporate Game Center functionality
into your application.
And then there's the
service segment of it,
the network service segment of it,
where players will go and where high
scores are stored and leaderboards.
It's also where the service
that provides auto-matching
capabilities for Game Center.
So let's talk a little bit more
about the features available that you
can start leveraging in your game.
So first is friends.
Friends is at the heart of
the social gaming experience.
Friends like to play against each other,
look at achievements and leaderboards.
Leaderboards are where
players post high scores,
get bragging rights,
increases their engagement and
excitement around your game.
There's achievements.
Achievements are something
significant or difficult a
player will earn in your game.
They enjoy finding them,
they enjoy earning new achievements,
and it just raises the excitement level
that you can generate with your game.
Then there's multiplayer.
Multiplayer, of course,
is the ultimate challenge where two
players can play against each other.
and VoiceChat.
VoiceChat enables two players,
while they're playing a multiplayer game,
to talk to each other,
further enhancing the multiplayer
excitement and enjoyment that a user
will have while playing multiplayer.
And we enable customization,
so when you use Game Center,
you can customize leaderboards
and achievements to match
the style of your game.
So new for iOS 5 is
turn-based multiplayer.
We're all familiar
with this kind of game,
which is like a card
game or a board game,
where a player takes a turn,
and then the next player,
and then the next, and so on.
And the turns go around
sequentially between the players.
So let's look a little bit
closer at how iOS 5 works,
multiplayer works.
So what happens is a
player takes their turn,
and the game data goes
up to the game center.
And the next player is notified,
and they run the application,
and the data comes down to their game.
They take their turn.
The next player is notified.
The data goes to them, and so on.
Now, a really neat part about multi-turn
gameplay is that Game Center will
auto-match players into empty seats.
So a game could actually be started,
and as it proceeds along,
it'll auto-match a new
player into the game.
It'll be their turn immediately,
and they can take their turn,
and then the game will proceed.
So multi-auto-matching is
a fantastic feature for
Game Center turn-by-turn playing.
and you have control over the order
in which the turns will occur.
You know, it can go forwards, backwards,
you can skip players.
It can proceed in any
order that you wish.
So you have complete control
over the order which players
will take their turns.
And a player can have up to 15 sessions
of your game running at a time.
So in one session,
it might be their turn.
Another, it'll be someone else's turn.
But they can have up to 15
sessions of your game running.
So to preview this a little bit,
I'm going to bring up Meriko,
and she's going to run an application.
See this in real.
So I'm a big fan of turn-based--
I'm a big fan of turn-based gameplay,
and I'm a big fan of word games.
So the guys wrote an application
called Word for Word,
and I'd like to show it to you.
The first thing I'd like to do is give
you a look at the user interface for
the new turn-based multiplayer gaming.
So this is what you're going to get
when you call a GK turn-based multi--
really long word-- a GK turn-based
matchmaking view controller.
This is what your users will see.
Right.
So most importantly,
your turns that you need to play are
right here at the front of your game.
I've got a couple of turns to play.
I have some friends.
They're lagging on their turns.
New to iOS 5,
you can actually rate your game
from directly inside the game.
So we're going to go ahead
and give our game five stars.
I think it's great.
I played it just a little bit.
So in order to start a new match,
I'd like to show you that.
You can tap the plus button
up in the upper hand corner.
So you can see me right up at the top.
You can see how many
players can play this game.
Games support up to 16 players,
and this is going to come up when you
add how many games are in your code.
You can use this button here to
add players or remove players.
If you'd like to invite one
of your Game Center friends,
you can tap on Invite Friend,
and you're presented with a list
of your Game Center friends.
New in iOS 5 is the ability to
have a photo attached to your user.
So this is a really good way for me to
see if this is actually Corey or not.
This Play Now button in
the upper right-hand corner
is also pretty powerful.
What this lets you do is,
if you don't want to
invite specific friends,
you can say Auto Match,
and Game Center will find your friends
and automatically match you with game
players who are good to play with.
So what I'd like to do is
go ahead and play a turn.
Now, let's see,
we're playing a little bit of
a self-referential game here.
What I'd like to point out is this game
is entirely implemented inside of UIKit,
and it's running at 60 frames per second.
What that lets me do is have
a very interactive game where
I feel like I'm actually touching
the environment that I'm in.
I'm picking up those tiles,
laying them down, and I'll play my turn.
So, given that this is in UIKit,
in iOS 5,
you can customize even more of UIKit,
which is really powerful.
This allows you to get the look you
want in your game and still have the
feeling of our buttons and our behavior,
so your users are going to
understand how to play your game.
I asked our guys to go ahead
and make a menu that fit in with
the look and feel of this game,
and you can see that this fits
into my gameplay pretty nicely.
You can start an online
match up at the top.
You can also do pass and play.
You might only have one iPad
on an airplane or something.
You can still see the games where it's
your turn and go and take a turn there.
We're also using the
Game Center services to pull down
your achievements from the server.
We're sorting those in
an order that we prefer.
We're going ahead and
putting the completed,
the earned achievements at the top,
and we're putting the in-progress
achievements down in the bottom.
You're looking at a whole
lot of UI table views here,
and in iOS 5 with the
new interface builder,
you can now do table cell
view prototyping directly
inside of interface builder,
which is going to let you have a rapid
iteration of your user interface.
We think this is pretty powerful too.
I'd also like to show you
what we did with leaderboards.
In addition to making
it look like your game,
you can also go ahead
and add functionality.
Right here we have our
friend's leaderboard.
You can see our friend's pictures.
Again, when I'm looking at Lyricist,
it's good to know that that's really her.
But our designer really felt like
you should be able to start a game
from inside of the leaderboard.
Maybe I want to knock
Lyricist down a peg,
maybe I want an easy game,
so I'll play with Hans Sutter.
But you can launch that game here
without going back and starting a new
game and looking for your friend again.
The last thing I'd like to
point out are these buttons.
So if you look at the challenge button,
the back button, the refresh button,
these little lozenges,
we're using a feature in iOS 5
in UIKit called UI Appearance.
UI Appearance is very powerful because
what it lets you do is configure the
look and feel for an entire class
of buttons or class of controllers.
You can either tint our controller
or you can replace it with artwork
of your own in order to have a
completely customized look and feel.
To do all of these buttons
throughout the whole game was one
line of code for our developers.
Which is pretty cool.
So that's word for word.
Thanks, John.
Thank you, Meriko.
So let's look at some of the other
new features in iOS 5 and Game Center.
There's achievement banners.
Achievement banners are when
a player earns an achievement.
They'll get notified with a banner.
Custom invite sounds,
where you can build and
incorporate custom sounds
associated with your application
when a player receives an invite.
in-game ratings so your players can rate
your game right inside of the game title,
so making it easier for players
to get your ratings out there.
Achievement Leader Boards,
Raising the Visibility of Achievements.
So now we have Achievement Leader Boards.
Game recommendations.
Players will receive recommendations
on games based on what they play.
and friend recommendations helping
players build their friends network.
And now players can associate
a photo that they want to
share with other players.
So that's Game Center,
Apple's social gaming network.
It increases player engagement,
raises visibility of your games.
We highly encourage you to start
taking advantage of all the features
of Game Center in your game.
So next,
we're going to talk about AV Foundation.
AV Foundation is the framework you should
be using for all of your time-based
media needs in your application.
We've had AV Foundation on
iOS for some time,
and we now have brought
AV Foundation to Lion.
So you can use the same powerful
API in iOS and Mac OS for all
of your time-based media needs.
AV Foundation has four
fundamental operations:
playback, edit, capture, and export.
And the beauty of the way
we've designed AV Foundation,
it's designed around some intuitive,
easy-to-use, abstract objects.
One example of that is AV Asset.
And AV Asset abstracts your media types.
So whether it be media on
local storage on device,
or whether it's coming over the network,
or whether it's a live HTTP stream,
it's all an AV Asset.
This is just one example of
how we've tried to design the
API such that it's easy to use,
so that you'll be able to incorporate all
of the unique functionality and powerful
functionality into your application.
So let's talk a little
bit about playback.
Playback starts with an AV asset.
You attach an AV player object to
it to control the playback sequence,
start, stop, fast forward.
And then to present it,
you use an AV presentation object
to present it on screen and out
the microphone or the speaker.
It's that simple.
But AV Foundation is a very powerful API,
giving you flexibility and
capabilities to use it in
unique ways in your application.
For example,
you can use AV Foundation to build
your own custom user interface
for the playback experience.
AV Foundation does not have
a built-in user interface.
To get the default user interface,
you would have to go up to UI kit.
But when you're at the
AV Foundation layer,
you would provide your
own user interface.
We give you all the data you
need to build a complete and
full-featured playback experience.
The user elements you would provide
will be composited by core animation,
giving you a high-performance
user interface.
And of course,
AV Foundation is an asynchronous API,
ensuring that the user interface will
remain responsive even under the most
demanding playback decoding sequences.
Now new on line in iOS
5 are media options.
Media options allow you to have
alternate audio tracks and video tracks,
so you can have support for
things like alternate languages,
subtitles, closed captions.
We also give you the ability
to introspect chapter
information for titles,
play duration, and artwork.
The combination of these
gives you the ability to build
complete professional-grade user
interfaces into your application.
Let's move on to editing.
Editing starts with a series of assets.
You're able to take clips
out of those assets,
sequence them together,
and combine them in an
AV composition object.
You can provide transitions
between those sequences,
such as wipes and blurs,
You can overlay audio tracks.
And again, we've provided an intuitive,
easy-to-use model that you
can use to build this editing
capability into your application.
But it's also a complete and
professional-grade interface
that allows you to support the
most demanding editing problems.
Let's talk about capture.
So most devices today come with a camera.
And AV Foundation is how you
will get access to those cameras.
AV Foundation gives you
control over the camera,
such as focus, exposure,
and Control to the Flash,
so you can access the flash,
allowing you to set the settings of
the camera to get the right video
and photos that you're desiring.
In line, we've introduced a new
framework called Core Media I/O.
Core Media I/O allows you to write device
drivers for your own capture devices.
integrating them right into
the AV Foundation pipeline,
making them accessible to
anybody who uses AV Foundation.
So that's capture.
And then lastly is export.
Now how we've made export easy is
we've defined a series of presets.
These presets are optimized
for classes of devices.
So you can simply use a preset
when you are exporting or
transcoding out to a file.
And you can use those presets to
ensure that the resulting file,
the resulting video, is being captured.
And then the final preset, the audio,
is going to give the optimal
experience during playback
for that family of devices.
So we have tried to make it
easy for you to get the right
export properties into the file.
AV Foundation is based on some
of the best industry codecs,
such as H.264 for video and AAC,
ensuring the best quality,
no matter if you're using it for
HD resolution or for something smaller,
or an AAC for scaling the bit
rate and quality of your audio.
Two of the best codecs in the world.
And on Mac OS X,
we provide ProRes encoding for
integration into professional workflows.
Now,
we talked about the pipelines of how you
can have playback and edit and capture,
but what we also allow you to
do is to get access to those
frames as they're being captured
and do additional processing on
them before they get displayed.
So you can use OpenGL or the
CPU to do additional processing,
and we've had that on AV Foundation.
Well, new for Line and iOS 5,
we now allow you to get
frame-level access to the
video and the stills on export,
allowing you to use Core Image, OpenGL,
and the CPU to modify, edit,
to enhance the photos
and video on export.
So that's AV Foundation.
AV Foundation has a wealth of classes.
We'll have four sessions this week
going into the details of AV Foundation.
And we encourage you to learn
all the details of how you
can take advantage of it.
So AV Foundation,
it's the framework that you should
be using for your time-based
media needs in your application.
Next is Core Image.
Core Image is our powerful
image processing framework.
We've had Core Image on Lion,
on Mac OS X for some time,
and now we've brought it to iOS.
So we now are giving you
the same powerful image
processing framework on iOS.
Let's look a little bit closer
at how Core Image works.
Core Image,
you can take a still image or a frame
out of a video and apply an effect to it.
In this case, I'm showing applying
a sepia filter effect,
and that filter operates on each
individual pixel in that image.
Now, Core Image allows you to
chain filters together.
and you can build simple or
very complex filter chains.
And what Core Image will do is,
when possible,
it'll take those filters and coalesce
them together and in real time
recompile them into an optimal filter.
that you can target against a CPU or GPU,
ensuring the maximum performance,
no matter how complex of a
filter chain you're building.
So on iOS 5, we've brought a number of
powerful filters for you to use
built right into Core Image.
These filters are targeted
towards photographic effects,
like color controls, crop, straighten,
affine transform, shadow adjust.
These are available for you to build your
filter chains and to process your photos.
We've also introduced a series of APIs.
What these APIs do is they build filter
chains for you to give you a more complex
filtering operation automatically.
The first one is Auto-enhance.
Auto-enhance gives you that same
one-touch enhancement that we
built right into iOS 5 photo app.
You now have access to that same
capability right through Core Image.
We also have face detection.
With an API call,
face detection will identify
the rectangles in the
image that contain faces,
allowing you to focus--
Allowing you to focus your image
processing based on the information
returned by those rectangles.
Also, red-eye reduction.
One function call to achieve the
same red-eye reduction that we
offer you in our photo application,
iOS 5, through an API call.
So that's Core Image,
the same powerful image
processing framework.
We've brought it to iOS 5 with a
set of powerful filters that you can
use for your photo editing needs.
Next, I want to talk about AirPlay.
AirPlay allows you to stream audio,
to an Apple TV,
as well as two third-party devices
that support the AirPlay protocol.
AirPlay also allows you to
stream video to an Apple TV,
HD resolution video.
And with iPad 2,
we introduced an audio/video cable
that allowed you to mirror the display.
With AirPlay,
we now can mirror the display wirelessly.
This gives you an HD resolution
wireless mirroring through AirPlay.
And the interesting
opportunity for you developers,
I want to point out, is that-- yeah.
So we've integrated AirPlay in such
a way that that wireless display
behaves the same as though
somebody plugged that cable in.
So it looks like a second display to you.
And if you have already started using
The second display as a feature in
your application where you can have it
being out the window like this shows,
and then the handheld being some other
information like course information and
being able to use it as a steering wheel.
It will just work that same
way with AirPlay Video.
And I think that poses some unique
opportunities for you to leverage
this capability in your application,
integrating you into the
family room environment.
So to demonstrate this,
I'm going to bring Geoff on stage
and we're going to do a demo of this.
Thanks, John.
So first thing we'll do is let's
go through AirPlay and show
you how you can enable that.
We bring up the multitasking bar.
We'll quit that app.
We'll slide over to the
Now Playing controls,
and you notice there's that
AirPlay icon right there.
We tap on the AirPlay icon,
and you see we have the iPad
and the Great Room Apple TV.
If I select the Great Room Apple TV,
we now have that new controls
as a mirroring of the iPad 2.
What you have here is
you have your AV assets.
So if you're playing audio
or you're playing a video,
that's going to your Great Room Apple TV.
If I turn mirroring on, we mirror.
And I think we need to bring
up the Apple TV at this point.
There we go.
So now let's go demonstrate that again
so you actually can see that we do
have the Apple TV hooked up there.
So if I do a back to select back to iPad,
we have our Apple TV.
Of course, like Apple TV,
remembers your settings
as you would expect.
So now let's look at the
Real Racing example and show you what
they did to integrate the controls in
front of the player while putting the
play experience up on the Apple TV.
Launched Real Racing.
If you notice the menu
bar on top was blue,
status bar was blue,
and that indicates you're
actually in airplane mode.
Okay,
so I have my controls up on this side.
You have the car.
And what we can do is we can
hop right into a quick race.
That's my track.
I want to do a single lap there.
That looks good.
Tap on the track into racing.
So now I'm going to have the status,
what the track looks like,
what the upcoming corners are,
where I am in the race in front of me,
and everyone in the living room and the
great room can enjoy the race itself.
And of course,
controlling directly with your iPad.
There we go.
Not starting off very good.
I'm in last place.
We're seeing if we can
pass a few cars here.
Sliding by on the right.
Right in front of me,
I can see exactly what's going on.
The airplay.
I guess the move's an awesome experience.
Great control here.
Great work with the visuals and airplay.
You've been hanging on the track.
And I'll hand it back to John.
Thank you very much.
Thank you, Geoff.
So AirPlay, we think, is incredible.
And we think it gives you some
interesting opportunities for
how to stream audio and video.
Now, AirPlay is not a framework.
What AirPlay is,
is it's a system service.
And how you control it is
distributed through other frameworks.
For instance, the media player is where
the user interface is for
routing of video and audio.
UI screen is how you,
the class you'll use to get
access to be able to drive the
second display independently.
Or AV Foundation that gives you control
over the streaming characteristics
you want for your video and audio.
So I encourage you to go
to the AirPlay sessions.
Learn how to take advantage of this
and learn what control and APIs you
should be using to get the right
behaviors for you and your application.
So that's AirPlay,
wireless streaming of video and audio,
a great opportunity for you to integrate
with wireless displays and audio devices.
So when we build these
technologies at Apple,
we put a lot of thought into
how they can play together,
how people, you developers,
may want to use them together
to build unique solutions,
use them in innovative ways
we haven't thought about.
So we put a lot of time into
high-performance integration
of these technologies,
allowing you to mix and match them.
And to show you a little demo we put
together to try to show that off because
we thought it would be worthwhile to
give one last punch in this session,
I'm going to bring Meriko up on
stage and show off a demonstration.
Meriko Borogrove, Geoff Stauffer Thanks,
John.
If you guys bring up the Apple TV for me,
that would be great.
In the 1920s,
the surrealists invented a parlor game,
called the Exquisite Corpse.
And the way they would play Exquisite
Corpse is they'd sit around,
somebody would write a sentence or so,
and fold over the paper,
so that you could just see the last word.
They'd pass it to their friend,
and that person would take
that word and key off of it and
write another sentence or two.
Fold over the paper,
leaving just the last word,
and then they'd continue on from there.
They created crazy stories
that had a really interesting
thread running through them.
So over the last five or six days,
we challenged our engineers to do
that with the technologies that
you've seen in this kickoff today.
And I'd love to show you our story.
So the first thing I'm going
to do is bring up AirPlay,
because I think 720p
streaming is awesome.
Okay, so the first thing that they wrote
was a fluid dynamic simulation.
It's written in GLSL with
a huge series of shaders.
It has density and acceleration being
injected into the simulation by my touch.
The color is keying off of the mass
of the particles in the plasma.
It's quite computationally intensive.
I also think it's quite beautiful.
The first thing that they decided
to key off was that density.
And what we've done is we've
brought up an audio track,
and we're controlling the
complexity of the audio track on
the density of the simulation.
So you can just hear a percussion
line with a little plasma.
You can hear the bass come in.
I really start kind of playing.
Bring up a guitar.
And if I really get crazy,
and John Steele.
You can get a second guitar line in.
So what we're doing here is I have a
movie file with four synced audio tracks,
one for each instrument.
I'm using AV Foundation to play them
back and to mix based on the density
of the plasma in the simulation.
I'm using the pan and the
volume controls to do that.
And that movie is my AV asset that
John was talking to you about.
So the next thing that we thought
about injecting in was some extra mass.
And to do that,
we started taking some input
off the front-facing camera.
See, I can continue running along here.
One of the great things about a shader
is that you can change the look and
feel of it very simply with parameters
once you've got your shader written.
I kind of like this ghost look.
The CineDation API have a bunch
of new performance enhancements
in iOS 5 that are fantastic.
You can take your CV pixel
buffers and you can send them
straight to a GL texture.
The way we're doing this is we're taking
that frame and we're processing it
with an edge map that's a GLSL shader.
And then we're taking that
edge map and using it to inject
mass into the simulation.
Next thing we kind of thought
about is that maybe we could
add some acceleration in.
And we've got these
great Core Motion API.
So we keyed off of acceleration,
and we're measuring the
acceleration of the iPad.
Adding acceleration to the particles.
And that's just really surreal.
You can still see me.
So the last thing that we keyed
off of is the entire scene.
We wrapped it up and
we put it on a texture.
And if you've been in a media
and graphics State of the
Union or a Kickoff before,
you know what we do with textures,
which is we map them on 3D objects.
You can see.
We used GLKit to bring up this scene,
and we used all three of the
performance debugging tools earlier.
They were successful there,
and optimized the performance to
keep the frame rate full here.
So I guess what I'd really like to do
is recap the storyline for you here.
So what we've got is we have a full fluid
dynamics simulation running on the GPU.
It has density and acceleration
being injected by my fingers.
It has mass being injected by
camera frames that are being
processed again on the GPU,
mapped to the surfaces of this cube,
along with a real-time video preview
being processed to black and white,
all on a spinning cube in 3D space,
streaming at 720p to my Apple TV,
all from my iPad 2.
and the team at Microsoft are here
to share their exquisite story.
Back to you, John.
JOHN STAFFER: I'm glad to hear you clap.
It's amazing what you can do on
iPads nowadays and with iOS and
Mac OS because that is an incredible
amount of computing that's going
on there to drive those simulations.
It's absolutely incredible.
So this week, we have 22 sessions
covering the Graphics,
Media, and Games technologies.
And hopefully,
we gave you a little bit of an
insight about what you may want
to learn and go dive deep into and
integrate into your application.
We also have 25 labs.
These labs are great opportunities for
you to go and talk to the engineers
that build these technologies,
getting help from them,
asking them the most detailed
and difficult questions about how
you should be using and taking
advantage of these technologies.
So hopefully, we kicked off your week
in a useful manner.
And thank you for coming,
and welcome to WWDC.